## Binary Trees
#### Introduction
A binary tree is a `tree data structure` in which each node has at most two children, referred to as the left child and the right child.

#### How binary trees are used in computing
1. Efficient searching and sorting: here, binary trees (BTs) are used as a means of `accessing nodes` based on some value or label associated with each node. Binary tress with such label are used to implement Binary Search Trees (BST) and Binary Heaps.
Here, the arrangement of particular nodes into the tree is not part of the conceptual information.
2. Representation of data with a relevant bifurcating structure. In such cases, the particular arrangement of nodes under and/or to the left or right of other nodes is part of the information (that is, changing it would change the meaning).

#### Types of Binary Trees
A binary tree is always rooted. In a binary tree, every node has a left child, a right child, neither, or both and to specify that these "are all different" binary trees.
1. full BTs: a binary tree type where every node has either 0 or 2 child nodes.
2. perfect BTs: a binary tree type where all the leaf nodes are on the same level and every node except leaf nodes have 2 children.
3. Complete BTs: a binary tree type where all the leaf nodes must be on the same level. However, root and internal nodes in a complete binary tree can either have 0, 1 or 2 child nodes.
4. Balanced BTs

#### Common operations on BTs
1. Insertion: nodes can be inserted in two ways
- between two nodes
		B<--A-->C ==> Add D between A and B
		.D<--A-->C
	    B<--
- to a leaf node
2. Deletion: deletion can only be done unambiguously in nodes with zero or one children
3. Traversal: traversal can be done in the following ways
- Pre-order: current node --> current node left subtree --> current node right subtree
- In-order: current node left subtree --> current node --> current node right subtree
- Post-order: current node left subtree --> current node right subtree --> current node
- Depth-first order: node farthest from the root node that is a child of a node aleady visited
- Breath-first order: node closest to the tot that's not visited
